Basic Conventions 
-----------------

### Generating Livewire Address Assignments 

Livewire address assignments are generated by hashing a Livewire capable
device's IP address.

As discussed in the [IP
conventions](https://wiki.wmfo.org/index.php?title=Operations/Diagrams_%26_Tables/IP_Address_Space "IP Address Space"),
all Livewire capable devices are assigned IP addresses of the form
192.168.YYY.1XX. Thus, only the YYY and XX values are needed to generate
a unique Livewire address for a device. Furthermore, all Livewire
devices use only a single digit value for YYY, reducing it to just Y.

All normal Livewire addresses are located in the 1ZZZZ range. The 0ZZZZ
range is reserved for temporary Livewire address assignments, testing,
and for new Livewire device before they can be assigned permanent IPs
and Livewire addresses.

To generate the ZZZZ value from a device's Y and XX values do the
following:

1.  Treat ZZZZ as ABCD
2.  A = Y
3.  BC = XX
4.  D = Start at 0 and count up for each necessary Livewire source on a
    device.

 

This system only works on Livewire devices that have fewer than 10
channels per single-IP address device. A few Livewire devices have far
more than 10 Livewire channels associated with a single IP
(PowerStation, StudioEngine, etc). To handle these devices, we must
enforce a limit on which IP addresses we will use in order to insure
there is adequate hash table space available to allow the D value to
overflow into the BC values. See the IP address conventions for more
information on the IP restriction currently in place to support this
extension of the hashing algorithm.

These channel numbers apply only to the Livewire *source**s* originating
at the device in question. All sources, used or not, should be given
their assigned address. Destinations are given the address of the source
they receive, or 0 if unused.

Livewire Address Space 
----------------------

The WMFO Livewire address assignments are as follows. Livewire addresses
are generated by hashing IP addresses using the previous formula. Please
consult the [IP Address
Space](https://wiki.wmfo.org/index.php?title=Operations/Diagrams_%26_Tables/IP_Address_Space "IP Address Space")
page for IP and related addressing assignments.

  Device      Type                                       Livewire Range
  ----------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------------------
  CONA1       Axia Analog Node                           10000 - 10007
  COND1       Axia Digital Node                          10100 - 10107
  CONASI1     AudioScience ASI6585 PCI Card              10300 - 10307
  CONRS1      Axia Router Selector                       10200
  CONZP1      Telos Zephyr IP                            10400
  CONNX1      Telos Nx6 Phone System                     10410 - 10413
  CONOMNIA1   Omnia ONE Compressor - Multicast           10420
  CONSE1      Axia Studio Engine                         10500 - 10699
  SAA1        Axia Analog Node                           11000 - 11007
  SBA1        Axia Analog Node                           12000 - 12007
  SBD1        Axia Digital Node                          12100 - 12107
  SBRS1       Axia Router Selector                       12200
  SCPSM1PM    Axia PowerStation Main Program & Monitor   13500 - 13517, 13540 - 13699
  SCPSM1A     Axia PowerStation Main Audio I/O Node      13520 - 13527
  SCPSA1      Axia PowerStation Aux                      13530 - 13537
  TOWRS1      Axia Router Selector                       19200
  TOWASI1     Tower ASI Card                             19300-7

1.  1. [Basic Conventions](#Basic_Conventions)
    1.  1.1. [Generating Livewire Address
        Assignments](#Generating_Livewire_Address_Assignments)

2.  2. [Livewire Address Space](#Livewire_Address_Space)

