 

The donations website (Ver 3) is based upon previous work by Andy Saylor
and Ben Yu and has been updated to use Twitter Bootstrap, MySQLi, and a
little jQuery. The WMFO Donations website centers around the SallieMae
platform (however much we dislike it). The donation flow

1.  index.php
2.  options.php
3.  wmfolog.php
4.  SallieMae Portal
5.  thankyou.php or cancel.php

is based upon posting to SallieMae, and a post back script receives the
information back from payments.

 

Generally {.editable}
---------

All pages pull from head.inc.php which defines the header and navigation
links.

### index.php {.editable}

This page starts the donation flow. Inputs are required with the HTML5
required tag which does not work in IE9. There are two PHP arrays which
define the text for the donation value links and popover bubbles. The
bottom text is defined in typical paragraph form. This page posts all
fields to options.php, which prints each field in a hidden HTML form
input.

 

### options.php {.editable}

(accessed only through index.php)

This page receives all information from index.php and should not be
accessed directly except in testing. The typeahead on this page pulls
data from schedule.wmfo.org hosted on Duke. There is a page on duke
(titled donations something) which spits out all the shows on
schedule.wmfo.org into an array which can be interpreted by the
bootstrap typeahead. Two additional (All of them and None) are typed in
manually on options.php. All information on this page is posted to
wmfolog.php.

 

### wmfolog.php  {.editable}

(page not viewed. stores POST data from options.php and POSTs to
SallieMae)

This page firsts dumps the necessary post data into the WMFO database in
mysql.wmfo.org. It loads a hidden form on the page. Onload, javascript
on the page automatically submits the form which POSTs the data
contained in hidden form elements according to SallieMae's
specifications (which are populated by the php script from the POST data
received from options.php) to the salliemae URL.

As it inserts into the database, it fetches the ID of the field and
places it into the ACCOUNT post field to the SallieMae database. The
ACCOUNT\_EDT is set to N to prevent people from altering the account
number on SallieMae. This number is used to validate the post back.

### SallieMae Portal {.editable}

This receives our post data and behaves accordingly. Currently, we post
data to not allow changing of certain parameters such as cost and
ACCOUNT ID field. This allows us to prevent the user doing things like
changing the payment down on the final portal and eliminates any
confusion.

### postback.php {.editable}

This page receives the SallieMae post back from its validation process.
This allows us to validate whether a payment actually took place
(uhhh...). It then inserts this data into the \`postback\` table on
mysql.wmfo.org donations database.

 

### stats.php {.editable}

This page generates the HTML content for the sidebar used on the main
website, including most recent donor, total amount raised, and the first
4 show leader boards. These are fairly complex SQL queries, so don't
touch unless you're willing to do a little playing.

 

### results.php {.editable}

This page allows pulling of detailed (but obfuscated) results about the
donation drive, including viewing the full show leader board, the
individual pledge leader board, and querying of donation first names and
values by show.

This uses jQuery to automatically update the table when the form fields
are changed, and pulls from resultstable.php to populate the table HTML.

### thankyou.php {.editable}

Upon successful payment and clicking continue, you're forwarded to this
page that says thankyou with a link back to the homepage.

### cancel.php {.editable}

Upon hitting the cancel button on SallieMae's portal, you get dropped to
this page with a link to start donation process over.

1.  1. [Generally](#Generally)
    1.  1.1. [index.php](#index.php)
    2.  1.2. [options.php](#options.php)
    3.  1.3. [wmfolog.php ](#wmfolog.php)
    4.  1.4. [SallieMae Portal](#SallieMae_Portal)
    5.  1.5. [postback.php](#postback.php)
    6.  1.6. [stats.php](#stats.php)
    7.  1.7. [results.php](#results.php)
    8.  1.8. [thankyou.php](#thankyou.php)
    9.  1.9. [cancel.php](#cancel.php)


