Any current student on staff is able to run for any position on the WMFO Joint Board, except for the position of General Manager, for which a student must have previously served on one of the WMFO boards.

 

The board at WMFO is split into the **Executive Board** and the **Select Board**, which together constitute the [**WMFO Joint Board**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board "Executive Board").

 

The **Executive Board** is the administrative body of the WMFO Joint Board, and consists of the following positions:

1.  The**[General Manager](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/GM's_Office "GM's Office")** is in charge of the nitty-gritty and general oversight of the entire station. In addition to managing and organizing structure within the WMFO Board, it is the General Manager’s job to organize and distribute all finances for the station. The General Manager is the point of contact to both the public and the university, and thus acts as the main consul between the Tufts Comunity Union and WMFO. Above all else, the General Manager is a project coordinator, and spends most of his or her time delegating, organizing structure, and relaying information. In short, the General Manager is the person to ensure that WMFO runs well and doesn’t collapse, even if he or she is not the person directly fixing or addressing an issue. The General Manager oversees all Executive Board and Select Board operations.
     The General Manager position is time-consuming, stressful, and takes no prisoners. As the face of the station, you are responsible for all of its successes and failures, and must be willing to innovate, think creatively, and understand both the current and future state of the station and board.
     In order to succeed as General Manager, one must be highly organized, punctual, and without ego. There is no advantage to having a technical vs. non-technical background, but being open-minded and able to learn the processes and functions of the station are absolutely necessary. The General manager works very closely with the Assistant General Managers and WMFO Executive Board.
     The General Manager reports to the WMFO Executive and Select Boards. In order to run for the position of General Manager, one must have previously served as a member of the WMFO Exec or Select Boards.
2.  The [**Assistant General Manager**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/GM's_Office/Asst._GM's_Office "Asst. GM's Office"), or AGM helps with day to day running of WMFO and is a great way to get involved with higher leadership and technical functions in the board. Specific responsibilities are flexible and requires only help with donations drive. There are typically two. The AGM oversees the Business Director and reports to the WMFO Executive Board and General Manager.
3.  The [**Program Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Programming_Dept. "Programming Dept.") schedules and oversees the content of all on-air programs, writes and enforces WMFO's policies (subject to the review of the Executive Board), provides and oversees training to ensure station members are knowledgeable about WMFO and Tufts' policies, ensures station members are trained to operate station equipment, oversees volunteering, and maintains the studio access list and online schedule.
     As there are over one hundred DJs active each fall and spring, being the Program Director is very work-intensive. You need really good communication skills and a lot of free time, because you are really involved in the day-to-day operation of the station. It is also helpful to have management experience. Being the Program Director has been a ton of work, but it's been the most exciting, fun, and valuable experience I have had at Tufts. When else in your life are you going to get to run a radio station? The Training Coordinator and Volunteer Coordinator report to the Program Director, and the Program Director reports directly to the General Manager.
4.  The [**Operations Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Operations_Dept. "Operations Dept.") is responsible for all equipment, software, and physical property of the station. He or she must be familiar with all technical aspects of the station, and is responsible for maintaining, upgrading, and repairing the station's devices. Though the time commitment is heavy and unpredictable, as equipment tends to break at the worst possible times, the position is a great learning opportunity for someone interested in computer science or engineering. The Facilities Director, Archivist, and Webmaster report to the Ops Director. The Operations Director reports directly to the General Manager
5.  The [**Music Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Music_Dept. "Music Dept.") is WMFO's liaison with the broader music industry, interacting with promoters to get new music into the station.  The MD also works with a corps of volunteers to process the new music and get it out into rotation for DJs to play.  Beyond that, the position is what you make it and there is lots of opportunity for you to mold the way WMFO runs and sounds. The Booking and Tickets Coordinators report to the Music Director. The Music Director reports directly to the General Manager.
6.  The [**Publicity Directors**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Publicity_Dept. "Publicity Dept.") are responsible for publicizing WMFO and it's events, as well as maintaining a positive image of the station on Tufts campus. The publicity Director Should: Make posters for events, Order WMFO swag, Run general campaigns to promote the station, Organize publicity events for volunteers, More as is seen fit by the Directors and the Executive Board They are also responsible for coordinating the Publicity Department, which consists of the Events Coordinator and the New Media Director. The Publicity Director reports directly to the General Manager

 

All positions on the Executive board can be filled jointly by **two (2) students acting as the same position**, except for the General Manager.

 

The **Select Board** is the operational and project-focused body of the WMFO Joint Board, and consists of the following positions:

1.  The [**Business Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/GM's_Office/Business_Dept. "Business Dept.") runs and operates the **WMFO Recording Studio** and is in charge of organizing recording sessions, recording bands and artists, and interfacing with Tufts and the community to market the recording studio and bring in groups to produce and mix. The Business Director works closely with the Booking Coordinator and reports to the Assistant General Manager.
2.  The [**Training Coordinator**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Programming_Dept./Training_Office "Training Office")’s main job is to run training for incoming DJs. This involves managing the TEMS online portal to keep track of trainee’s progress and help solve the problems incoming DJs can have with the training process. The Training Coordinator is usually the first board member that interested students and community members reach out to. The Training Coordinator reports to the Program Director.
3.  The [**Booking Coordinator**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Music_Dept./Booking_Office "Booking Office") is in charge of getting interestng acts and musical guests on the air. The Booking Coordinator works closely with the engineers and DJs to make sure that, if you want to put an act on the air, you can. The Booking coordinator is an incredibly interdisciplinary position and reports to the Music Director.
4.  The [**Events Coordinator**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Publicity_Dept./Events_Office "Events Office") is responsible for getting publicity for the station by putting on cool events. Anything that will attract Tufts people is fair game. In the past, we've had rap battles, concerts, and bouncy castle extravaganzas.The Events Coordinator works closely with and reports to the Publicity Director.
5.  The [**Volunteer Coordinator**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Programming_Dept./Volunteering_Dept. "Volunteering Dept.") is in charge ofcoordinating and tracking WMFO staff volunteering efforts. This includes organizing regular volunteer days, providing volunteers for special WMFO projects, logging and publishing staff volunteer hours, and providing volunteering talent to all other WMFO department. The Volunteer Coordinator reports to the Program Director.
6.  The [**Facilities Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Operations_Dept./Facilities_Office "Facilities Office") is WMFO's liaison with Tufts Facilities for everything in the station. Basically this requires filing work orders and keeping in touch with Facilities to make sure things get fixed. The Facilities Director also works directly with the Operations Director to maintain the station and help setting up new equipment. Knowing how to operate power tools and familiarity with other common tools is a plus but definitely not a requirement.
7.  The [**Webmaster**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Operations_Dept./WebMaster's_Lair "Webmaster's Lair") is in charge of WMFO's website and web presence. The Webmaster works with the Operations Department on projects and reports directly to the Operations Director.
8.  The [**Archivist**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Operations_Dept./Office_of_Archives "Office of Archives") is in charge of documenting the station and its history. The Archivist reaches out to past members of WMFO to document the station’s history and is in charge of updating and documenting things on the WMFO wiki. The Archivist reports to the Ops Director and is a great way for someone to get more involved with WMFO.
9.  The [**New Media Director**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Publicity_Dept./New_Media_Office "New Media Office")'s main task is to maintain and update the Wordpress blog of the website, the WMFO Facebook page and WMFO Twitter account. They also have to coordinate the unruly mass of bloggers that submit posts to the blog on a not-very-regular basis. The New Media director reports to the Publicity Director.
10. The [**Tickets Coordinator**](https://wiki.wmfo.org/About_WMFO/Executive_Board/Music_Dept./Tickets_Office "Tickets Office") acquires promotional tickets from various venues to be given away on air. The Tickets Coordinator reports to the Music Director

*No headers*
